My name is Mitchell Birdwell.
I personally thought I had it all together.
I had a perfect little family
—a son and a daughter,
and my wife was regular pioneering.
I was serving as an elder.
I was working as a custom home builder,
and I had just finished building
my dream house.
Everything I ever wanted, I had.
I was assigned to go
to a construction project
in Japan as an international volunteer,
and that project changed everything.
When I got over there, I realized
that everybody on the site
was a regular pioneer.
It really began to have an impact on me.
I tried to justify it personally by saying:
‘You know, I’m doing OK.
‘I’m doing what I should be doing.
They’re just overachievers.’
One day, my interpreter approached me,
and I said, “Well, let’s interview
the committee today.”
I only had one question
that was burning in my heart.
How could they be balanced
and be regular pioneers?
He asked the question.
They asked me to turn to Matthew 6:33,
so I go to read it.
He says, “No, read it out loud.”
So I read it out loud.
He says, “Read it again.”
So I read it for the second time.
Then he says: “The Scriptures are clear.
If you truly ‘seek first the Kingdom,
these other things will be added.’”
That had a major impact on me.
I was just standing there
with my Bible and my thoughts.
I felt so little.
That night, I couldn’t sleep.
I kept playing that over and over in my head,
‘Why don’t I believe?’
I remember as a kid, we used to play the game
where you lean back and people catch you.
I never liked that game.
But that’s serving Jehovah
—you’ve got to lean back.
You know he will catch you
—you don’t know how, though,
and you don’t know when.
Well, the next day,
the chairman shows up
to speak to me privately.
He says, “May I analyze a day in your life?”
And he describes
my life in detail accurately.
He says: “You start off,
the phone is ringing.
“All day long you’re busy
with elders’ activity,
the RBC, and your business.”
He says: “You come home from work,
your children are trying
“to communicate with you,
but you’re so busy.
“Because maybe it’s late at night
(about 10:00 p.m. at night),
“you’re down, and it’s time
to spend some time with your wife,
but you fall asleep.”
And then he just stopped
and asked me a question.
He says,
“Why do you only spend tired time
with your wife and your children?”
So from that moment, I started thinking,
‘What can I do personally
to start making some adjustments?’
We had to find a way to get involved
in full-time service as a family.
I do feel
that we have a lot
of our brothers
and sisters in the organization
who maybe can’t pioneer, but they’ve given
Jehovah everything they have.
And that’s all he asks—give me your best.
Immediately, when we got back,
we started making adjustments,
and it wasn’t easy.
We gave up a lot of things
that we thought were important to us.
Regular pioneering opened up
a lot of doors for us as a family.
My daughter and her husband
are construction servants
with the LDC Department.
My son and his wife
—he’s a regular pioneer
and also serving as a remote Bethelite..
Currently, we’re serving
as construction servants
with the LDC Department.
We get to serve Jehovah
in this assignment as a couple.
We pinch ourselves sometimes thinking,
‘What a life we get to live!’
Even with our children,
to this day, we still discuss this.
They say that for them it was
the best decision we ever made as a family
—giving up the stuff
to serve Jehovah full-time.
And as I look back, it was that decision,
that scripture at that moment
—that defining moment—
that started it all.